<?xml version="1.0"
?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="generator" content="http://txt2tags.sf.net" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="styles.css" />
</head>
<body bgcolor="white" text="black">
<div align="center">
</div>

<p></p>
<hr class="light" />
<p></p>
  <ul>
  <li><a href="#toc1">1. Simple, lightweight API for Sibelius 6.</a>
    <ul>
    <li><a href="#toc2">1.1. Directory layout</a>
      <ul>
      <li><a href="#toc3">1.1.1. bind</a>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#toc4">1.1.2. synchronize</a>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#toc5">1.1.3. startup</a>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#toc6">1.1.4. receive</a>
      </li>
      <li><a href="#toc7">1.1.5. send</a>
      </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  </ul>

<p></p>
<hr class="light" />
<p></p>
<a id="toc1" name="toc1"></a>
<h1>1. Simple, lightweight API for Sibelius 6.</h1>
<p>
This plugin allow you to call ManuScript methods using text files. Any target
environment can implement the file protocol to take control of Sibelius. The
text files (called sockets) are stored in the file system.
</p>
<p>
To initiate socket communication, call one of the methods <code>synchronize()</code>,
<code>send()</code> or <code>receive()</code> from ManuScript. The <code>synchronize()</code> method, may
also be added to the Plugins menu.
</p>
<p>
The API plugin can be configured by editing the properties defined in its
<code>Initialize</code> method.
</p>
<a id="toc2" name="toc2"></a>
<h2>1.1. Directory layout</h2>
<p>
All sockets are contained in a single directory (see below). The socket
directory contain a bind file, which instructs Sibelius to accept incoming
messages on given socket addresses.
</p>
<p>
Each connection have an address path that indicates a subdirectory structure
in the socket directory. Each connection consist of two files, called send and
receive.
</p>
<p>
The full directory layout looks like this
</p>
<pre>
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/bind
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/sync 
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/startup
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/&lt;address1&gt;_send 
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/&lt;address1&gt;_receive
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/&lt;address2&gt;_send 
  &lt;socketDirectory&gt;/&lt;address2&gt;_receive etc...
</pre>
<p></p>
<a id="toc3" name="toc3"></a>
<h3>1.1.1. bind</h3>
<p>
This file contains one line for each incoming socket connection. Each line
contains a socket address.
</p>
<p>
Sibelius will scan this file for incoming messages whenever the synchronize
method is called. If the last modification date of this file is earlier than
the startup time of Sibelius minus the expires attribute, no messages are read
and the synchronize method returns directly.
</p>
<p>
When Sibelius has read and executed messages from all sockets specified in the
bind file, it will overwrite it with a blank file.
</p>
<p>
Example: Given the socket directory "~/.sibapi", the following contents of
"~/.sibapi/bind" would cause Sibelius to read messages from the files listed
below.
</p>
<pre>
  sib2otherLang/context_15/252
  dumperPlugin/dumps/mainDump
  testSocket
</pre>
<pre>
  ~/.sibapi/sib2otherLang/context_15/252/receive
  ~/.sibapi/dumperPlugin/dumps/mainDump/receive ~/.sibapi/testSocket/receive
</pre>
<p></p>
<a id="toc4" name="toc4"></a>
<h3>1.1.2. synchronize</h3>
<p>
When Sibelius has read and executed messages from all sockets specified in the
bind file, it will modify the contents of this file. Thus target environments
can determinate when Sibelius was last synchronized by checking the
modification date of this file.
</p>
<p>
The contents of this file is a checksum of the contents of bind when Sibelius
was last synchronized.
</p>
<a id="toc5" name="toc5"></a>
<h3>1.1.3. startup</h3>
<p>
The contents of this file is overwritten whenever Sibelius starts, provided
that this plugin has been installed on the system. Target environments can
determinate when Sibelius was last started by checking the modification date
of this file.
</p>
<p>
The contents of this file is the time Sibelius was last started in XXX format.
</p>
<a id="toc6" name="toc6"></a>
<h3>1.1.4. receive</h3>
<p>
These files contains messages from targets to Sibelius. Messages are written
in a Lisp-like syntax. Any Unicode character can be used. Line breaks and the
following characters have special meanings. ( ) , \
</p>
<p>
To include one of these characters literary, prefix it with '\'. Line break
literals are written as '\n'.
</p>
<p>
Each line contains one message expression, formatted as (name,recv,args ...)
where name is a string representing a method name recv is a reference (see
below) to the object that contains the method args is any number of arguments,
which are strings, numbers or references
</p>
<p>
The brackets are optional. Each parameter may contain nested bracketed
expressions. Note that whitespace characters are not discarded, and that
strings are written plainly rather than quoted. Thus the "Hello World"
expression is written as (trace,self,Hello World!) and NOT as (trace, self,
'Hello world!')
</p>
<a id="toc7" name="toc7"></a>
<h3>1.1.5. send</h3>
<p>
Whenever Sibelius has executed a message from a receive file, the return value
of that message is written to the send file in the corresponding directory.
The return value of this file is always written to its first line, the
contents of remaining lines is always undefined. If a receive file contain
multiple lines of messages, only the return value of thelast executed message
will be written to the send file.
</p>
<p>
If the return value contains any of the characters ( ) , or \, they will be
escaped by \.
</p>
<p>
If the returned value is an array, it will be formatted as (v0,v1,v2 ...)
</p>
<p>
Nested arrays are formatted similarly as ((apple,banana),(red,yellow)) etc.
</p>
<p>
If the returned value, or an array element of a returned array, is an object
other than an array, it will be replaced by a string reference. Referenced
objects are stored in an internal reference table.
</p>
<p>
String references string on the form "sibobj_N", where N is the object at
index N in the reference table.
</p>
<p>
If a string on the form "sibobj_N", where N is any string representation of an
integer, is provided as an argument in a receive file, that argument is
replaced by the object at integer N in the reference table, or null if no such
index exist.
</p>

<!-- xhtml code generated by txt2tags 2.5 (http://txt2tags.sf.net) -->
<!-- cmdline: txt2tags -v -i /Users/hans/Documents/Kod/java/workspaces/macbook/Sibelius API/doc/SibeliusAPI.t2t -t xhtml -\-style=styles.css -\-toc -->
</body></html>
